Success (related to JD)

I have been working in Westpac Group for 13 years where I spent the first 6 years doing business unit finance roles before I moved to finance system roles. 

When I was doing BUF roles I supported various executives with variance analysis, expense management, forecasting and yearly planning. I worked closely with them to understand what’s happening in the business and how I could help them with insights to help them growing the business and to improve the bottom line. Over those years, I have managed to streamline a lot of management reporting and provided insightful analysis for my stakeholders.

For example, when I was supporting St George Retail, I created weekly dashboard for our retail executive and his team. It tracked the spot balance and balance growth for each retail product and the comparison by different channels, regions, and markets. It also showed them other metrics such as application approval and settlements and the conversion rate as well as what is in the pipeline. The dashboard showed the best and the worst performers and helped the executive team with their strategies and decision making. For example, when they ran specific campaign for deposits, they can see if they were growing their balances from that campaign. Sometimes the strategy did not work as planned such as when they decided to cut off broker commission, we had massive run-off in mortgage book before they decided to switch strategy.

And I moved to financial system role at the end of 2011, I was actually approached by Head of MIS about a vacancy in his team and he needed someone with strong analytical skills, business knowledge and good with reporting. 

So, I took that role and for the last 7 years, I have helped transforming the system from the legacy St George BI Tool to the current state in TM1. One of the biggest achievements I did was to clear up the head office numbers (bulk of them to do with IFRS Acctg) by analysing the nature of the transactions and identifying key drivers that could be used to do allocations. I worked closely with different finance HOFs at that time to propose the business rules and to get their agreements. Then I was leading business analyst to build the rules in SAS as interim approach while we were looking at long term solution by building production tables in data warehouse.

During the transition, I also helped with change management to help finance transitioning from their reporting from old system to Teradata. I created excel modelling to review BS, PNL and margin management for both business and consumer finance. 

Initially, we started building a prototype as a proof of concept. I worked closely with a BA to build those business rules in SAS.  

Once we built the prototype, I also helped with change management. I helped building finance modelling to replace their old reports so they can review BS, PNL and margin where they can just click a button to populate the numbers for their 
specific business unit. 

I also  helped them rebasing their targets and helped them understand the changes with before and after view.

I also continued working with project team to deliver those functionalities we had in prototype to production tables in GDW. Once in production, the data then gets populated automatically to TM1. 

But now we have TM1 as our front end and my key role is about finance control and making sure our numbers are reliable and delivered on time during month end. It is a critical role because the numbers are used widely by finance in Business and Consumer Division, our two biggest divisions in Westpac. On daily basis, I need to review the financials in TM1 to make sure there are no anomalies. I also have regular meetings during month end with consols, products to understand what’s happening during month end, is there any ad hoc journals or pricing changes that will impact the numbers. I need to be aware of them so I can understand the movements and the impact to business rules. As we have short time frame to close month end, I need to be able to explain the anomalies before business units start asking questions. 
I also work closely with our IT team to make sure system running fine and issues resolved on timely manner. And of course I manage the communications with end users with any issues to keep them in the loop. 

In the last 2-3 years I attended some conferences from Teradata or SAS since we use their products. And I got to know about machine learning, AI and start hearing about open source systems like Python and R. 

I don’t like doing boring manual stuff myself and in my previous roles I did a lot of modelling and used excel VBA or Access. Of course I also use Teradata and we built a lot of business rules in the data warehouse. But we always end up pumping data from Teradata to excel to do further modelling, dashboard charts etc before copying them to powerpoint for presentations. 

So I got so fascinated by these new buzz words because now we have the capability to do things in much bigger scale and I can provide better insights for businesses. So I started doing online courses such as data science using R and I also started learning python. I also learn Power BI for visualisation as well as tableu. My aspiration one day I can lead a big team with experts in this field where it plays an important role in helping the business to execute different strategies to grow the business.  But of course I need to understand how all these things work if I want to progress my career in this area.

That’s probably the reason I want to leave because I feel my system now is pretty mature and I have managed my stakeholders to resolve a lot of issues over the years. And I need a new challenge to pursue my passion dealing with big data and use latest technology to help my stakeholders with insights.

So that is pretty much a quick summary of my experiences in banking where I can relate some of my experiences to this job you advertised. 








2. "What are your biggest weaknesses?"

My weakness I don’t like last minute requests because I always want to deliver good quality report and need sufficient time to prepare. Over the years, I figure out the best way to tackle it is by figuring out all the possible questions/scenarios that would come from stakeholders and work out the possible answers during your free time. So next time you get last minute requests, you can handle it properly. For example, when I was working at BT there were a lot of requests about waterfall. And it was not something that I had been doing during my previous roles. So during my free time I worked out a macro to automate that process so next time I can handle all the different possible requests with waterfall. 



3. "What are your biggest strengths?"
After going through so many changes in Westpac, I can say my real strength is my ability to analyse complex issues and solve the problems and presenting the results in concise manner for my stakeholders to understand. I am also able to communicate easily with both finance people and technical people. For example, I was able to explain Non Credit Risk calculation for one of our businesses who started to look into their capital numbers a lot closer (elaborate later also how you talk to say Michael Lim techinal team and translate them to business)


4. "Where do you see yourself in five years?"

I hope I can end up in an environment where I will be dealing with big data and resolving various complex issues and dealing with different projects. I keep doing good jobs and hopefully can manage a big team and be an important part of a company in helping them executing their key strategies.


5. "Out of all the candidates, why should we hire you?"

I have been working in retail and consumer banking for over 10 years and know the products quite well as well as experiences in presenting results and visualisations in concise manner to key decision makers. There’s no points giving fancy and busy visualisations and they don’t understand them. And at the same time, I’m capable to talk to technical people to translate all the jargons to something easier understand for businesses. I bring the best of both areas where I don’t think that many people can have that. Plus, I am easy going and hardly complaints and always deliver. 



6. "How did you learn about the opening?"
7. "Why do you want this job?"



8. "What do you consider to be your biggest professional achievement?"
Last year we completed a massive project regarding a separation of a new division and I was involved as SME from finance system. I was part of the team that won the One Team award. I was quite proud of myself as it was quite a complicated project and I highlighted all the risks and collaborated well with group finance, business unit finance and IT to resolve issues and to make changes to meet the deadline.

9. "Tell me about the last time a co-worker or customer got angry with you. What happened?"

10. "Describe your dream job."

11. "Why do you want to leave your current job?"


12. "What kind of work environment do you like best?"
I like to work independently and don't work well with micromanagement. I also like to have the balance between working hard and having fun in the team. 

13. "Tell me about the toughest decision you had to make in the last six months."
It's probably more on my career where I decide that I may want to start exploring opportunities outside Westpac Group after 13 years in the bank. You think about potential redundancy you may forego as well as starting something new outside the bank and start making new friends after so long.

15. "Tell me about a time you disagreed with a decision. What did you do?"


16. "Tell me how you think other people would describe you."


17. "What can we expect from you in your first three months?"


18. "What do you like to do outside of work?"





Questions to ask

1. "What do you expect me to accomplish in the first 90 days?"

2. "What really drives results in this job?"

3. "What are the company's highest-priority goals this year, and how would my role contribute?"





























